# Uniswap v2 Protocol

The Uniswap Protocol is an open-source protocol for providing liquidity and trading ERC20 tokens on Ethereum. It eliminates trusted intermediaries and unnecessary forms of rent extraction, allowing for safe, accessible, and efficient exchange activity. The protocol is non-upgradable and designed to be censorship resistant.

Uniswap is an AMM protocol. It facilitates peer-to-peer swapping or trading of ERC20 tokens between users. Uniswap is non-upgradable and censorship resistant.

QUESTION - How is Uniswap censorship-resistant?

# Specifics

## Governance

To follow up on..

## Liquidity Pools

A single liquidity pool comprises two assets, both valued relative to each other. As one asset is traded for the other, the relative prices of the two assets shift, and a new market rate for both is determined. A buyer or seller trades directly with the pool when swapping tokens.

## Earnings From Uniswap

Liquidity Providers deposit ERC20 tokens into Uniswap liquidity pools and earn fees from the swap volume generated in those pools.

## Concentrated Liquidity

The defining feature of Uniswap is the concept of `concentrated liquidity`:
```
LPs provide their ERC20 tokens as liquidity at a specified price range for that token (this is known as setting a `Liquidity Position`). 

While price is within bounds, LPs earn fees from the swap volume in the pool but earn nothing when price falls outside.

LPs can set as many `Liquidity Positions` as they choose.
```

Technically, to implement `concentrated liquidity`, Uniswap uses the concept of `ticks`. https://docs.uniswap.org/concepts/protocol/concentrated-liquidity
- Ticks are the boundaries between discrete areas in price space. Ticks are spaced such that an increase or decrease of 1 tick represents a 0.01% increase or decrease in price at any point in price space.
- Ticks function as boundaries for liquidity positions. When a position is created, the provider must choose the lower and upper tick that will represent their position's borders.