# Aave v3 Protocol

Aave is a lending protocol. Suppliers (aka Lenders) deposit liquidity and earn interest on their deposit. Borrowers pay interest to take out a normal loan (overcollateralised, and perpetual as long as they keep paying the interest), or pay a fee to take out a flashloan (undercollateralised one-block liquidity) which they must repay in the same block.

QUESTION - How is Aave non-custodial?
ANSWER - User funds are indeed stored in Aave's smart contracts. However users (supposedly) retain control over their funds via holding their own private keys. Aave does not hold any user private keys, and hence only acts as an executor of any funds management operations initiated by the users themselves.

# Earning From Aave

Suppliers specify the asset they want to provide liquidity for, deposit the asset into Aave, and receive aTokens in return, as proof of their deposit and representing their share or claim on the rewards from Aave.

Suppliers may initiate withdrawal of their deposited assets at any time. However, whether the actual withdrawal is successful depends on whether there is enough liquidity in Aave for the specific asset.

Aave rewards come from:
1. The interest rate payment on loans - suppliers share the interests paid by borrowers corresponding to the average borrow rate times the utilisation rate. The higher the utilisation of a reserve the higher the yield for suppliers.
2. Flash Loan fees - suppliers receive a share of the Flash Loan fees corresponding to .09% of the Flash Loan volume.

Each asset has its own market of supply and demand with its own APY (Annual Percentage Yield) which evolves with time. Users may use the average annual rate over the past 30 days (this data is presumably published by Aave and freely accessible to users) to evaluate the rate evolution. Aave also offers other (more) data on the reserve overview of each asset.

# Aave Risks

Apart from usual risks from slippage and hacking, asset reserves on Aave may be `frozen` or `paused` by Aave Governance (and whichever addresses they grant authority to) as they see fit (ie: with no say from users). Similiarly, Aave may unfreeze or unpause any asset reserve as they see fit.

A frozen reserve does not allow any new supply, borrow, or rate switch (variable/stable). A frozen reserve does allow for repay, withdraw, liquidations, and interest accrual (stable rate rebalances).

A paused reserve does not allow for any protocol interaction: supply, borrow, repay, rate switch (variable/stable), liquidation, or aToken transfer.

The current frozen and paused status of all Aave protocol reserves can be viewed via an Aave-provided website.