# ERC4626 Tokenized Vaults

Tokenized Vaults with a single underlying EIP-20 token.
https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4626

# Requires

- Fabian Vogelsteller <fabian@ethereum.org>, Vitalik Buterin <vitalik.buterin@ethereum.org>, "ERC-20: Token Standard," Ethereum Improvement Proposals, no. 20, November 2015. https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20
- Martin Lundfall (@Mrchico), "ERC-2612: Permit Extension for EIP-20 Signed Approvals," Ethereum Improvement Proposals, no. 2612, April 2020. https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2612

# Description

ERC20 tokens (ie: contracts) provide the transfer() method for token owners to transfer tokens from their balance to other addresses. They also provide an approve() + transferFrom() mechanism for proxy addresses to do the actual transfer on behalf of the owner. In addition, they offer a bunch of usefuls like allowance(), balanceOf(), totalSupply(), as well as optional metadata features name(), symbol(), and decimals().

ERC4626 improves on this by specifying a `vault` that allows deposits and withdrawals of an ERC20 token, and implements a `shares mechanism` by which an address (can be EOA or contract) that deposits ERC20 tokens (aka `asset tokens` or `underlying tokens`) into the vault, gets back some amount of `vault tokens` (aka `shares tokens`) that serve as proof of the deposit, and also as representation of the address' `share` or claim on the total token balance (or value) in the vault.

# Specifics
- ERC4626 `asset tokens` must be ERC20 tokens.
- ERC4626 `vault tokens` must be ERC20 tokens with all optional metadata (ie: name() and symbol()) implemented.
- Every vault must define and maintain an up-to-date ratio of exchange between `vault tokens` and `asset tokens` for mint/deposit/withdraw/redeem operations (as defined by the vault contract).
- Vault contracts may implement ERC2612 to improve UX.
- Vaults may charge a fee (ie: an amount of asset tokens or vault tokens) to users for deposits, yield, AUM, withdrawals, or anything else prescribed by the Vault.
- Vault contracts may implement slippage protection mechanisms. Slippage refers to any difference, arising from changing market conditions, between advertised token price/exchange-rate and actual token price/exchange-rate used during exchange operations.